>> Kyle: Now I'm gonna take you through,
this is our scenario.
Here we have a similar kind
of fluent method chain, but
now we have three separate operators
that are adjacent to each other
that don't have a compatible shape.
And if I wanted to reduce those all or
combine those,
compose those three functions all into one
operator that could work across the list,
it's not gonna work as it stands.
And the solution to that is to transduce.
Now, I'm just gonna pause for a moment and
explain almost at a meta level,
what we're about to do,
just so you don't get too lost.
Because to be quite honest,
transducing is a highly advanced
topic within functional programming.
Or at least, it's a highly advanced
topic within functional like.
I teach this, and have written about it,
and I have been doing it for a while, and
I still find it to be a bit confusing,
a bit hard to get my brain wrapped around.
So don't feel bad that what
I'm about to take you through,
is gonna be quite brain twisting.
But what I'm gonna take you through,
instead of just showing
you how to transduce.
Because the punchline here is that there's
a transduce utility built into your
favourite functional programming library,
and you just need to pass the right
stuff in and it will do the work for you.
>> Kyle: But
I don't think that's good enough for
me to just tell you,
transducing's all you want
to just call this utility.
In this spirit of what we've
been doing in this class,
I want you to see how it
works under the covers.
So I'm gonna take you
through a derivation.
Transforming this code, step by step,
into something that can be transduced.
And those steps are going to be
quite complex to understand.
And they're gonna hurt your brain
a little bit, cuz they hurt my brain and
I've been doing this a lot.
But you don't ever have to go
through that set of steps again.
It's just I need to take
you through it once, so
you can appreciate what
transducing does for you.
So even though this seems complex,
transducing as an end user utility is
actually very, very simple to use.
You just have to understand,
recognize where you need it,
drop in that tool and use it.
It's a very powerful
power drill if you will.
To do this set of derivations.
To reshape these things into
something that we'll compose,
I'm going to several
different junctures here.
Pull a rabbit out of thin air if you will,
I don't know if any of you remember,
if you recall a similar situation of mine.
I remember back in grade school,
high school taking like an algebra class,
and I remember that the teacher
will be showing some crazy complex
equation like x squared plus 3 is equal
to 2x to the 4th plus 9 or whatever.
And we get this thing down to
some specific thing where the two
sides of the equation,
we couldn't figure out how to keep
going any further in terms of reducing and
solving it.
And it would look like
we were at an impasse.
We'd say I don't know what to do,
I don't know how to get x squared and
x cubed to somehow work with each other.
And the teacher would wait for
a moment, and
then a glimmer in her eye,
and she'd say something like,
''what if I multiply both sides by 2x
to the eighth'', or whatever she said.
What if I multiply both sides
by this some random thing?
And she did it and all of a sudden,
it just magically worked itself out.
And I'd be like what?
Where did this two x to the eighth
plus nine then come from?
That's completely out of thin air.
How did you know that that was the thing
that you should multiply it by?
That used to drive me insane.
And I go up to the teacher after
class every single time and
be like, how'd you know to do that?
And the honest and truthful but
unsatisfying answer was,
well I've just done it before.
I've done it enough that I just knew
that was the right thing to do.
What I'm about to take you
through is a set of derivations,
where I'm gonna pull some junk out thin
air, like two x squared plus nine or
whatever it is, and you're gonna be like,
how did you do that?
And my answer to you is I didn't.
I read somebody else that did it,
and I'm trying to practice enough
that I can get my brain to that point,
where I could have figured out.
There is no way on earth that
what I'm about to show you,
is something that I would've
independently come up with.
The set of steps, the jumps that you make,
I would never have figured it out.
But I read some really great stuff from
others, and learned what they did, and
broke it down, and figured it out.
And I'm using that as my journey,
if you will,
to try to learn to develop
that same instinct.
And so all I can say is that's
what you're gonna have to do,
if you wanna think like this higher
level functional programmer does.
You have to just practice
that kinda stuff.
So with that metapoint made, let's try
to transform this step by step into
something that we can traduce, that we
can compose those incompatible utilities.
The first thing that we could
observe here, is that map filter and
reduce themselves are incompatible.
Much less the operators
we're passing to them.
They are incompatible.
It would be really good,
if we could somehow get this from a map
filter reduce to just three reduces.
And to do that, we can observe that
because reduces are Swiss Army knife,
we can implement a map
operation with reduce.
And we can implement a filter
As a matter of fact,
we already did a filter operation
with reduce in the previous exercise.
So, the first step here is to reorganize
map and filter as reductions.
So now we'll end up,
the goal will be to end up with three
reduces instead of a map filter reduce.
To do that, I'm gonna create a utility
called mapWithReduce and filterWithReduce.
So mapWithReduce on line 1,
takes a list in a mapping function, and
it calls the reduce on that list.
And it started out,
if you see there on line 5,
it starts it out with an empty array.
And it pushes the mapped value into that
new array and then returns the list.
So it just goes through the list, calling
mapping function with each value and
pushes it into the list.
Why am I using push
here instead of concat?
Cuz again,
anytime you start mutating something that
you don't technically control, you should
at least take a step back and ask.
Well the reason is,
because right there on line 5,
I actually do control the empty array.
Since it's contained within my function,
I know it's predictable.
I know it's trustable.
And it's much more performance for
me to mutate the list,
than to create a new one every time.
So that's an acceptable
performance cheat if you will.
But it's only because that's within
the context of something I control.
Everybody follow that?
So map with reduce is
pretty straight forward.
FilterWithReduce is the same
concept except on line 10,
we only push in to the list if it
passes the predicate function check.
Same logic that you would think of, it
passes the predicate push it in the list,
if not just ignore it.
>> Kyle: Now, looking down at the bottom,
we have three separate calls,
all three of them are reductions.
We have mapWithReduces a reduction,
we have filterWithReduces a reduction.
And then we call list.reduce
on that end resulting list.
We end up with the same value, 48.
So we're still doing three
different loops through the list.
But at least they're three reductions now
instead of three entirely different kinds
of operations.
>> Kyle: The next step
is that I'd like to describe this,
instead of these standalone utilities.
It'd be easier for me to illustrate and
move forward if I could describe each one
of those reductions as a reducer that I
could pass to the built-in array method.
So in other words, the reducer on
line 2 and the reducer on line 9,
I need to extract those reducers out and
just produce those to be used.
So I'm gonna make a map reducer and
a filter reducer.
On line 1, you see I'm just creating
that same reducer and then on line 9,
I'm creating that same reducer.
So I am not doing the reduce,
I am creating the reducer
to be used on lines 18 and
lines 19 respectively.
But don't miss that there is one level
of function wrapping in direction,
this is a machine making machine here.
Map reducer takes the mapping
function to close over on line 1.
And it returns the reducer,
close the remapping function.
Which is why on line 18,
we have to pass in add one and on line 19,
we have to pass in is on.
And that produces those reducers.
You want to pay very close attention
to the shape of the things
that we are creating.
Look at the shape of the reducer.
By shape I mean,
what kind of inputs does it take?
What kind of output does it produce?
The shape of that reducer is that it takes
two inputs and produces a single output.
It's not actually that relevant how it
puts them together or if it ignores them.
It's the shape of two to one
that we wanna think about.
And generally speaking,
the reducer is fundamentally
doing this combination activity.
It's taking two values,
combining them into one.
[COUGH] Now, the next step that
we're gonna take is, again,
a little out of thin air,
like, why would you do that?
But if you squint, and
look at the function mapReducer and
the function filterReducer, there is
some commonality between those two.
Specifically, they both push a value
into the list and return the list.
One of them uses a mapping
function to do it.
One of them has a predicate check but
they both push a value into a list and
return a list.
What I'm gonna do is essentially
factor out that commonality
into a separate utility,
then I'm gonna call listCombination.
So listCombination takes a list and a
value, pushes the value into the list and
returns the list.
That's what we see on lines 1 through 4.
That's the commonality.
And now you'll notice that I'm using
listCombination on lines 8 and
lines 14 respectively to
do that part of the work.
So on line 8 and line 14, we don't
see it actually doing any dot push or
anything like that.
We just delegate to that list combination
utility to let it do that commonality.
We still call the mapping
function on line 8 and
we still have the predicate
check on line 14.
Look at the shape of listCombination and
compare it to the shape of one of those
reducers.
>> Kyle: They're
fundamentally the same shape, aren't they?
That's not an accident.
That's on purpose.
And that turns out that's gonna be
the linchpin that helps a lot of this
work.
>> Kyle: Now this next step is to
take that listCombination and say instead
of hard coding the listCombination,
why don't we parametrize
the listCombination that function itself.
Because there are other kinds of
combination that we potentially might
wanted to do in the future.
listCombination is a very specific
thing which takes a value and
pushes it in the list and returns it.
But there are other things we could
do like throw away the value or
double the value or who knows what, right?
So let's parametrize the combination
function that we use.
By parametrize I mean, in addition
to passing in mappingFn on line 6,
we also want to pass in what
combination function to use.
And, I'm going to go one step further and
say, I really want to do those
two arguments separately.
I don't want to pass
them in at the same time.
Do we know about a utility that we learned
earlier in this course that would allow us
to pass in arguments one at a time?
>> Speaker 2: Partial.
>> Kyle: Partial has some of the arguments
later, What was the other one that could
pass in one argument and then another?
>> Speaker 2: Curry.
>> Kyle: Curry, so
what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna make
a map producer, that is the curry of
a function that takes both a mapping
function and the combination function.
So line 6, I have a map producer that
expects both of those utilities as
parameters but they're not curry yet.
And that currying is going to allow
me to provide those independently.
And now on line 8,
you'll see that I'm using combined
function on line 8 that was
passed in through line 6.
I'm using combined function on line 14
that was passed in through line 12.
Now down at the bottom when I
call mapReducer, and I call add1,
I am passing in add1 as
the mapping function, but
only one argument at a time,
since it's curried.
And then when I call it the second time, I
pass in listCombination, that's combineFn.
Everybody follow that?
Same is true for my filters.
When I call filterReducer and pass in
isOdd, that's my predicate function.
And when I call it again, or
the resultant function one more time,
I pass in listCombination is combineFn.
So you can still see listCombination
being used on lines 8 and
lines 14 respectively, but it's been
parameterized which combination function
to use.
>> Kyle: I know this is in the weeds.
I know this is a jumbled mess of it.
And even me standing up here and
talking about it for the hundredth time.
It's still deep in the weeds, I got it.
Just stick with me.
We're about to really start to make some
progress here.
>> Kyle: What
would happen If I called
mapReducer add1 and
I didn't call it the second
time to provide a combiner,
what is the shape of that function?
>> Kyle: The shape
of that function is that it expects
a combiner function, right?
And the same is true of filterReducer.
filterReducer(isOdd), that gives us a
function that expects a combiner function.
So we now have, if we think about it
we now have two functions that are both
expecting a combiner function.
Now.
I asked you just a moment
ago to compare the shape of
the combiner function with the reducer.
And it turns out that the combiner
function and the reducer function have
exactly the same shape because they
are basically one and the same.
I'm using combiner function to keep it
separate but it is essentially a reducer.
So here's the trick that's gonna start
to make all this unravel for us.
Because they both take
a combiner aka a reducer,
the output of one of them can
be the input to the other.
The output reducer that comes from
the call mapReducer add1 listCombination,
that's a reducer.
That reducer could be the combiner for
the next one,
because they have the same shape.
And if the output of one can
become the input of the other,
what does that sound like?
>> Speaker 2: Composition.
>> Kyle: Does it sound like a composition?
So that is what we are going to do.
We are going to take that
function mapReducer add1 and
compose that with the filterReducer isOdd,
that function.
That is going to make a composed
function which is expecting
a combiner aka a reducer.
When we pass in the combiner, it's gonna
make a reducer out of the first one and
that reducer is gonna be the combiner for
the next one.
>> Kyle: So
that's what this looks like,
on line 19 I've made this thing
called a transducer which is
the composition of those two functions.
Each of which is expecting and
a combiner aka a reducer.
And then on line 24 that is when I
call the transducers and
pass in the list combination.
So follow with me the flow of logic here.
When I pass in the list
combination to the transducers
it's coming into the function on line 19,
the one that we created.
That filter reducer isOdd;
that's the one on the right.
It's the one that's sitting there waiting
for a combiner to be passed into it.
So we're passing it in when
we call it on line 24 so
that combiner comes into
the filter reducer.
And it produces the reducer
that we list out on line 13.
That reducer from line 13,
when it says combineFn on line 14,
it means list combination okay?
Now that reducer is the output of that
call in the function
composition on line 19.
That reducer gets passed into the waiting
function that was produced by
mapReducer add1 who is sitting there
waiting for a combination function.
But we're just going to secretly
give it a reducer instead.
Not really secretly, but that's our trick.
We're going to give it a reducer
instead of a combiner.
So now we're up on line 6 combineFn there,
that combineFn is actually the reducer
from line 13, you follow me?
So let's look at what it does
with that combiner function.
On line 8 it says I wanna call
that combineFn with a list and
with the mapping of that value,
you see that?
>> Kyle: That is gonna
delegate to the reducer on line 14
which says I received a list and
a now already mapped value.
That's line 13,
I'm going to call the predicateFn.
And the predicateFn is going
to check the mapped value and
if it passes I'm going to stuff it in and
if not I'm just going to skip over it.
So line 8, while it looks like
it's stuffing it into the list,
it's only conditionally stuffing it into
the list if it passes the predicate check.
So the mapping and
filtering have now been combined into one
step,
>> Kyle: Which is why we now
are down to two reduces at the bottom.
We have a reduce across
the transducer with a combiner
function produces us a single composed
reducer that does both the mapping and
the filtering at the same time.
I see lots of glazed over looks in eyes,
I totally understand.
I can't even tell you how many times
I've said this, and explained this, and
written about this.
And taught it,
it's still a bit [SOUND] to me too.
Like I said earlier, I would've never
have thought to do this myself.
I'm amazed that real functional
programmers came up with this but
somebody smart did, okay?
So now we have a reducer that we can
produce with a list combination.
But we have one last trick
up our sleeve because
our ultimate goal was to
only process the list once.
We're not doing it three times anymore,
but
now we're doing it twice.
>> Kyle: I want you to
think about the shape of the sum function.
I don't have it listed here,
but just think visually.
What does the sum function do?
>> Kyle: Some takes two inputs, an x and
a y, and what does it do with them?
>> Speaker 3: Uses it.
>> Kyle: It combines them together, right?
The sum function being used as a reducer
here has exactly the same shape as
a combiner.
>> Kyle: So what if,
instead of passing in listComination on
line 24, what if we just passed in sum?
Think about how we've generalized
what combining means.
Now you understand why we needed to
generalize the idea of combination.
Because now we can say I don't need
to go to an intermediary list.
If my end result is I want it to be
a number that gets added with another
number, use this combiner,
use the sum combiner.
And you could potentially come up with any
number of other kinds of combinations that
you would want as your end result.
But here we want the numeric edition.
So on lines 24 and 25,
the way we're gonna compose those, or
put those two together, is we're just
gonna get rid of listCombination entirely.
And we're gonna pass in sum as the list
combiner.
>> Kyle: And
now we have one single reducer that
does a map, and then a filter,
and then the summation
together all in one step.
We only need to pass
through the list once.
That's how you derive what
transducing does, and how it works.
That's how you know it's
not some magical black box,
because even though that might have felt
intimidating and a bit overwhelming.
There isn't a single thing that I just
said through that progression of slides
that isn't exactly what I've already
taught you for this entire course.
It is just putting the Lego pieces
together, which is really the heart of
what I'm trying to teach you is
to develop the instinct of how do
I put these two Lego pieces
together to make something useful?
There isn't some magic trick there,
it really was just do that and
then do that and then do that and do that.
And they're the right shape now,
that's cool.
That's really all it is.
So that's why I wanted you to
see how transducing works,
to begin to help build that confidence
that you already have developed
the foundational things to do
advanced stuff like transducing.
You're already half way up the mountain,
if you will.
Just by learning things like currying, and
function composition, and unary functions,
and list operations like reduce,
you already have the raw pieces to start
putting together a really great system.
>> Kyle: But
I don't want you to have to
go through all of that crazy
mental juggling every time
you wanna use transducing.
What I want you to do really
is be able to recognize,
I've got some adjacent operations
that I wanna fuse together.
They don't have the same shape, so
that means I need to do transducing.
Let me go use the transduced utility.
So I wanna show you just how easy
using the transduced utility is.
>> Kyle: I made one here, but
there's one that you comes with every
functional programming library.
So literally, line 6 and
line 8 are all you ever have to do,
but here's how the transduced
utility works.
It takes four inputs It takes
a transducer, which is the composed set of
combiner functions or
composed set of reducers.
It takes a transducer.
It takes a combined function to use,
aka another reducer.
It takes an initial value and
a list to operate on.
It's all pretty sensible stuff.
How does it work?
It calls transducer with
the combine function.
We know what that looks like.
We just saw it on the previous slide,
and that makes our reducer.
Then it does a reduce across
the list with that reducer
starting with the initial value.
>> Kyle: So
if I were to erase lines 1 through 4.
Line 6 is really all you need
to do to set up your transducer.
You have to do the compose and
map reducer and filter reducer our
utilities that are gonna be provided to
you by the functional programming librar.
So you're gonna have a compose provided
to you by the library, you're gonna have
a mapReducer provided to you by the
library, a filterReducer provided to you
by the library, and a transduce utility
provided to you by the library.
All you need to supply is isOdd,
add1, and your sum function.
That's your business logic stuff.
You just have to see this configuration,
be able to recognize this configuration of
how those Lego pieces go together, and
the rest of that magic will happen for
you.
>> Kyle: If line 8
said transduce, and
I passed in that same transducer and
then instead of the sum function,
I passed in list combination.
And instead of the 0 initial value,
I passed in an empty array.
What do you think I get back out?
I get back out the individual constituent
values that had been mapped and
then filtered.
So it's as easy as deciding what
kind of combiner do I wanna use, and
what is the appropriate initial value?
And now armed with that trandsducer, I can
do any kind of transduction across a list.